# Lesson 3.6 Eddie programming lesson

## Lesson 3.6 introduction to JavaScript- understanding JavaScript and using it.

- understanding bootstrap/open source javascript
- inserting styled buttons in our webpage

Continuing from where we left off, we have actually started to use JavaScript in our HTML, and its bootstrap. Bootstraps is an open source JavaScript framework which has all kind of different CSS available and there are many other options besides bootstrap, from what I've learnt and remember, HTML is the building block, CSS is for styling our HTML document and JavaScript is for interaction, to provide interactivity for our web pages. If you notice from my previous note, there have been mention of bootstrap and CDN, bootstrap I have already explained so Basically if you want to load your JavaScript and CSS you will need CDN in order to do that, CDN is short for content delivery network, which you should get from the name itself, this is what bootstrap/open source javascript and the CDN looks like is this.

￼

￼

Of cause there are other alternative beside bootstrap, we will try them out next time so for now we will stick to using bootstrap first. lets try to insert the different type of buttons on our current html document, the available type of buttons are below.
￼

To get the type you want, you just need to add in “class” inside the button elements.

￼

And after you’re done it would look like this.

￼
This time we will insert a total of 4 buttons.

￼

￼

And if that is too small, you can actually change the size of it to make it more noticeable

￼

So lets try it out

￼

￼

And lets test out the  other different ones too

￼

￼

 Now even though you have added the button, it still can’t do anything,  nothing is going to happen if you try to click it, you have to assign a function to it. Let try to assign a function to it
and see what would show.

￼
￼
￼
