Lesson 4.1 : Eddie programming lesson

Lesson 4.1 : Jekyll- introduction to Jekyll and markdown

- Markdown
- Jekyll
- Markdown syntax and their definition

This lesson we will be talking about markdown and Jekyll, basically markdown is a tool that allow us to write in a easy to understand and easy to write format, and it will convert it into html that the computer understand.Jekyll is a parsing engine or a static website generator, blogger or web writer also use it.

￼


￼

Above is my blog created from Jekyll.

￼

Like html, markdown has its own syntax for header, paragraph, list..etc. Especially for me, after trying it out, it is a whole lot more simpler and easier to write, saving me a lot of trouble. Lets show you this list of syntax and their definitions that I learnt during my last lesson and try it out later.

￼

As you know, in html, header is represented by the elements <h1> to <h6> respectively, in markdown it’s represented be the # symbol, with 1 # = <h1> so on and so forth, but <h1> and <h2> can be represented by setext-style (whatever that mean), but you can see the example above, later we will be testing it out ourself.

￼

For unordered list, markdown uses ( * + and - ), any three will produce the same result apparently, for ordered list, they just use numbers and period.

￼

And if we want to add link to our website, the syntax is [link text](http://linktext.com)

￼

And if you want to insert image, the syntax is almost the same as link syntax

￼

now lets try it out on atom and see. First you will need to install Jekyll, create a new website, and run the server.

￼

After its done, this should come out on terminal.

￼

Then on your desktop you should have a folder name website.

￼

You will need to open atom and drag the file inside and you should get something like this

￼

Note that if you want to create or rename a new file, you need to create it in the posts folder, and the file format need to be in YEAR-MM-DATE-text.md, if not Jekyll will not be able to read your file.

￼

To take a look at the website you’ve generated, just copy the the url from the terminal, paste it on the browser and load it.
￼

￼

Now that this is done, lets create a file and try out some simple syntax for markdown on our text editor and look at its markdown preview.

￼

￼

For the header above, you can see that I didn’t have to type a lot, just a few simple symbol and its done, now lets try to create a list and link.

￼

Lets try putting in the table too, (always remember that we can always copy and paste the stuff that we want so we can get things done fast and also making sure we won’t get things to be type wrongly)

￼
Lets copy and paste the table here and try it out.

￼

As you can see , writing in markdown is really really simple, and it’s understandable. if a guy like me can do it,  i guess anybody can do it too=)
