# Lesson 3.2 Eddie programming lesson

## Lesson 3.2 : ways of applying CSS -styling our HTML documents using inline CSS(Color)

- introduction to CSS
- different ways of applying css
- styling html using CSS

For this section we are going to talk about style, Color and fonts for our HTML document, which basically is called CSS, CSS stands for cascading style sheet, it let us manipulate our work to how we want it to appear on screen or other media for the user, and there are 3 ways which we can apply CSS on our HTML documents.

￼

As it is shown above the 3 ways of doing it, the first which is what we will be doing "inline CSS"

￼

it's hard to memorise it all in one time but as we use more of it, it will come to us naturally so not to worry as we will take it one step at a time.

For the Color, we can edit the Color of the text, background Color.
For the fonts, there are even more options available, e.g : font-family(for the style of the text), font-size(how big or small you want your text to be, font-align(to align your text where you want it to be).

￼

In HTML there are a few ways which you can specify Color, the first one you can specify by Color name.

￼

￼

And beside doing background Color you can do it with the text too which is really simple.

￼

And if you want your whole page to change Color you can too.

￼

The second is by RGB value which you can set.

￼

Let's try it out from this website and see.

￼

And there are different shades of grey for this too, I'm going to try it to see.

￼

￼

And true enough, so long as the value is equal for all three light sources, you will be able to get different shades of grey.
The third way to specify Color is using hex value though I did not learn about its value but we can google for it and I found some sites that do have it.

￼

And like RGB value you can set it which ever way you want as Long as you know the value of the Color you want. And it also has different shades of grey too.

￼

I will show you the website that I found which show me the value of the Color and we can try it out.

￼

￼

Ok let's try out these 3 Color (#8298e5, #00cd00 and #ff4479)

￼

Ok and it works! So things aren't really that difficult since a lot of stuff we can google it online as long as you know which to find.
