# Lesson 3.7 Eddie programming lesson

## Lesson 3.7 inserting table-how to insert table into html and style it

- introduction to the different elements and attributes for table
- inserting table into HTML
- styling it
- alternative for bootstrap

Continuing from where we left off, this time we are going to learn how to insert a table into our webpage, using the different elements and attributes and looking at the different format for the table available.

￼
￼

Above is the different elements and attributes definition and their usage, later on when we start on our table, I will explain it to you.
Now let's look at the available table format in bootstrap.

￼
￼
￼
￼

we are going to use the contextual class table and use the different color available to style it. this is going to look confusing bit as we are going to introduce table elements and the attribute, but we will get it as we go on.
So first we go back into our previous HTML document, type in the <table> elements, in the opening tag we have to add the base class="table", as the explanation said above, it's a little redundant but because of the widespread use, they have opted to isolate their custom style.

￼

Anyway, we should know by now that in a HTML document, different elements stand for different things, and that there's a hierarchy, for example, first come <html >, <head> then the <body>. Well same things apply for table, first there is <table>, <thead >,<tbody > and then <tfoot>, in order for your webpage to load properly, you have to get your hierarchy correct.

￼

￼

After you have written in <table> and its class, you can type in <thead>, which is use to group header content,  inside it you have to type in <th> for the header content, once the header content is done, you can proceed with the table body, in which <tbody> is the element, inside the body you will have to type in the same <tr> for the table row, in our case since we are styling our table with the different color, our <tr> will need to have the base class of the color, and one that is done, our column content will have to be put in the <td> element. you can look at my html as a reference.

￼

 After this is all done let”s save it and take a look at how our table looks like.

￼

and it looks great=) anyway i tried a few times before I get to make a proper table, previously I type in wrongly and it turn out not so great, but I will still put in a screenshots as a reference to show how important we have to type in correctly or get our hierarchy correction order for the browser to display it correctly.

￼
￼
This one above I forgot to put in the numbering.

￼
This one above I type in the wrong place for the row number, unfortunately I forgot to take a screenshot of it but things turn a little ugly, the table was a little jumbled up. but still its good, as I managed to figure things out with some reference and some mistake.

Beside bootstrap, there are many others open source javascript for us to use, we just have to google it, I have found some online, maybe for our next minute we can give it a try.

￼
￼
